Hello everyone and welcome back to Part five objects.
And this lecture we're going to be talking about javascript objects and javascript objects are essentially
hash tables they store information in a key value pair in other programming language.
This is sometimes known as a dictionary.
And unlike an array a javascript object will not retain any sort of order the name object can sometimes
be confusing for coming in from another programming language because it sounds so generic.
But keep in mind when someone says javascript objects are talking about a very specific thing now that
typical javascript object is in this form it's inside curly brackets.
And then you have the key colon and then the actual value that's associated with that key and you can
access values through the corresponding key.
All right let's hop to the consul and see some actual examples of this so we can learn more about javascript
objects.
I'm going to hop to my browser now.
OK here I am at my browser of the console open and has a quick note.
The Mozilla Developer Network has a great page on working of objects has a great overview.
Talks about object properties and the various methods you can work with an object.
And there's also a page in W3 schools dot com on javascript objects and what's really common we are
working with objects with the very first time is a car object where you have different aspects of a
car inside of an object so we can see it's actually here on both pages.
So let's continue that trend by creating our first object to be some information about a car and we'll
call it car info.
And I've actually written this previously which is why you see it pop up here but I'm going to make
a variable called car info.
Start with a curly bracket and then the first key I'll have is the make the car and the make of the
car is going to be Toyota then the next car I have is going to be year and it's 1990.
So we can already see that a javascript object can take in and mix data types and then finally I'll
have the model of the car and that will be the string Camry
and then we've close this all off.
Another curly bracket enter.
And there we have it.
So if I call car in full now I see I have a make Toyota year 1990 and the model is Camry.
If I actually want to get a value back so the values are.
Toyota 1994 Camry I have to call the corresponding key.
So instead of indexing like we did of an array I will actually pass on the key.
So if I want to make the car it looks like this.
And then I get back Toyota.
Something to keep in mind especially if you're used to Python is that by convention for javascript objects.
The keys don't have quotes around them when you're building out the object itself.
So you can see here make year and model won't have any quotes around them so they're not strings.
But when you're calling the actual key value pair you do have to pass in strings.
Otherwise if you were to just call car info and then call make in this manner with it not being a string
javascript's is going to get confused because it thinks you're actually referencing some variable called
make earlier.
So keep that in mind when you're creating the actual object.
By convention you're not going to have a string here but you also need when you're actually calling
the key value pair a string here.
All right.
So that's just the point of confusion sometimes for beginners or people coming in from Python programming.
So keep that in mind.
We're going to clear this to show an other example.
Javascript objects are really flexible that data types they can take in so we can make mine you will
say my new show for my new jobs project and we'll say a has a string.
So here's a key value pair.
A hello will say the key B has an array.
One two three.
And finally we can say Keesey has a javascript object inside of it so we're nesting it and we can say
something like inside.
And then a b and let's make sure we actually balance out these brackets.
And here we have my new O.
So let's check it out.
And it's the javascript object.
And notice when we actually print this out it says oh for the Keesey we have.
So their object.
And then I can expand this and keep checking stuff out here.
OK.
Let's practice actually grabbing some stuff here.
So the first thing I want to try to grab is hello in puzzle video see finger up hello on your own.
OK I'm going to do it now.
Well that's pretty easy.
Just passin the string a here and it Riffe triva.
Hello.
Now see if you're able to get the number two out of this mine.
Oh OK let's try it out.
I get mine you know.
First thing I want to do is actually grab B and then I see I have the array out so I can actually if
I press up a my key stack the calls these indexing calls are these key calls in if I want the number
to.
Well that's index one number.
0 is the starting index and there I have it.
There's the number two.
Now try to get the letter B from the very last object.
So I call mine.
Oh I have to grab the Keesey to begin with.
Then I have to grab the key inside and then finally I have to grab the second item index one which is
the letter B.
I hit enter.
Let's see if I got this right.
There it is the letter B.
So take your time make sure you can understand each of these steps for grabbing something that's nested
inside of a javascript object.
Now as a quick note it's definitely not that common to have something this nested.
This is a pretty extreme example but just keep that in mind the capability that you can have objects
with in objects.
All right let's move along and talk about actually changing values that correspond to key going to clear
my cons..
And let's go back to car info that we had earlier.
Remember let's just make here and model.
If I wanted to change the car a year all I have to do is grab car info and then in the key I want to
change in this case it's here and set it equal to some new value.
So for instance we can make it 2006 and that want I call car info I can see that I successfully changed
the year of my car OK.
We can also use a reference to the object itself.
So I can do something like this car info year and then say plus equals 1 and that will also work.
Turn back 2007 and if I call car info I see it's 2007 now.
So that works when your value is an actual number.
You can edit it that way if we want to show an entire object sometimes different browser.
So shoot I mean I'm going to clear this sometimes for some browsers if you just pass in the object itself
it won't actually show you the entire object.
But if you really want to make sure that you show the entire object you can call console dot Diyar and
then passen your object here.
So you pass incar info and we see we have the object itself and then you can expand this to see the
different keys and the value pairs.
Now for this very small object we basically got the same thing in our console so keep in mind that for
some reason you're working at a browser and you have a very large object that you're not able to see
the entire thing you can always call console dot Diyar and then passing your javascript object to make
sure you see the entire thing and expand it.
All right.
Continuing on let's talk about iterating through an object so to iterate through an object you can actually
use a for in and let me show you what that looks like.
You say four and then you make up some temporary variable.
Noise say four key in and then you pass in your object.
In my case it's car info.
Open curly brackets and a quick thing to remind you is there is no specific order to a javascript object.
Even though I can iterate through it with a for loop I have no guarantees about what order and when
to grab stuff in.
Sometimes a year may come out first.
Sometimes model may come up first sometimes make may come up first.
So keep that in mind.
There's not going to be any specific order continuing on let's show you how to grab keys so this is
going to grab the keys.
Want to do a console that log of the key itself and then close that bracket.
So I see here for key incar info.
Cancel that log key and just to quickly know I could have called key here.
Anything this is just a temporary variable so I could call this jelly as well.
Doesn't have to be the actual word key.
So if I say for jelling car info I still get all the keys out.
Now usually when you're programming you want to use some sort of variable name that makes sense so obviously
Jelly's not a good idea.
Maybe something simple like k is a good fit here.
So if I'm actually able to use this for Eneloop to grab the keys it means I can grab items as well or
those actual values.
Let's show you how to do that.
I'll just say console log and then inside of this I can call car info and then access at that key.
Let's show that.
Here we see make Toyota.
Year 2007 model Camry.
Now that's just by doing car info at that key.
All right that's all we're going to discuss right now for this first part of javascript objects in the
next part of five objects we're going to discuss object methods.
Let's quickly review what we've covered so far.
Javascript objects are key value pairs.
You have a key and then you have a value that corresponds to that key.
If you want to actually grab something you can use bracket notation to do it.
So again I clear my Consul here.
I can say the name of my object and in square brackets passen a string that corresponds with whatever
Qiam interested in.
So in this case Fomitch that and grabbing the make I get back that key value pair and then if we want
to actually iterate through a javascript object Well I can just use this for N and I grab the keys here
with my temporary variable name and if I want to grab the actual value the correspondence that key will
then I just make the call with the variable name inside of this for loop and that's really all you need
to know about objects at this time.
Coming up next we're going to discuss a really cool feature of javascript objects which are object methods.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.